# crime-detection


Crime is a very old concept which has moved on in society from generation to generation. Nobody is safe today. Criminals are employing scientific procedures to commit crimes as science and technology evolve, and authorities have been surprised by criminals' increased knowledge as society advances. Many crimes are perpetrated for the purpose of obtaining money or property wealth, with the most common being family feuds over property allocation. It is claimed to be a widespread societal issue that has an impact on not just a society's quality of life but also its economic progress. It is focused as major issue that has a direct impact on an individual's quality of life as well as indirect societal consequences.
With the rapid increase of crimes and the types of crimes, researchers are finding a strong connection in the various features affecting the crime like the geographic features, age, gender and many more yet to come into picture. Despite the fact that crimes can happen anywhere, it is normal for criminals to focus their efforts on regions where they are most familiar and at ease.
We seek to improve societal awareness by giving an advanced approach to identifying criminal hotspots and determining the nature, location, and time of crimes committed. Furthermore, having such a system in place would assist police in taking proactive actions in preventing and solving crimes at a far faster rate by allowing for crime prediction and prevention.
Various types of crimes are discussed here and focus on their intensities in the highest city in the highest year is put forward with machine learning concepts for the societal and police benefits in solving the crime. These crimes are represented in different visualization techniques like bar graphs, pie charts to get a clear picture about the crime.

The above problem made me to go for a research about how can solving a crime case made easier. Through many documentation and cases, it came out that machine learning and data science can make the work easier and faster. The aim of this project is to make crime prediction using the features present in the dataset. The dataset is extracted from the official sites. With the help of machine learning algorithm, using python as core we can predict the type of crime which will occur in a particular area. The objective would be to train a model for prediction. The training would be done using the training data set which will be validated using the test dataset. 
